Cool. Hi everybody. I'm Daniel again and I'm
gonna be talking in this lecture about React
more about React State Management and about React
Router. So basically React has like a bunch
of helpful packages for you and helpful like
functions for you that we haven't talked about
yet in this class that will help you
make, potentially make your projects a lot easier
to code on the front end. So today
we're gonna be talking about some of just
a few of those functionalities. Specifically we'll talk
about use context in React and we'll learn
more about React Router and the React Router
tree. And our goal is to kind of
expose like a few of these concepts to
you and maybe then you can try to
look towards React documentation or whatever that may
be to help aid you even further in
your projects essentially. Yeah, so first we'll do
a quick recap of what we've learned so
far about React State Management. So the main
tool that we have for React State Management
so far is uState. And the way that
this is generally set up is that first
we like at the top of our document
we need to import useState. Inside every single
document we create a state and a setState
function using the useState hook. If we want
to we can call the set state function
in order to change our state at any
point. And then in general, if we want
to pass this state into a child component,
then what we need to do is pass
it in as a prop to our child
component and then our child component will be
able to access it using the props that
is passed into it. Here we pass in
the name as a prop to child component
and then it's able to use name as
a prop. Cool. Okay. So let's imagine that
we have this following React component tree where
we have our state called name in our
top level component called app but then we
use the same state all the way over
here in our like, in the component g.
Then what happens is we have to pass
this name prop all the way down from
app to f here to potentially another component
all the way down to g. So then
we're kind of every single like step of
the way we're passing this name state as
a prop through. This can get a little
messy and just to go through how it
can get messy, we'll go through a little
bit of an example of what we like
don't like, what maybe we wouldn't like. So
this is my Google homepage. So we'll just
look a little bit. I like the Google
website since it's like a pretty simple example
of a website. Okay, yeah. So the top
layer of any website usually is generally the
web page. But if we were to like
code this in React then we want to
like look at what the next level layers
are beneath the web page. So maybe the
next level layers, maybe a few of the
things in the next level layer, this is
probably not all of them, wasn't really looking
at the search bar. But just a few
of the examples are maybe the nav bar
at the top or the modal that pops
up when you click on your profile icon.
That might be another thing that is managed
by the top level thing. Okay. Yeah, so
a few of the third layer things beneath
that, all the icons on the top. But
just an example, we might need the nav
bar icon with our profile picture. We might
need our main icon area that says, hi
Daniel here. And we also might need like
the other account section, that might be its
own component within the modal where we show
all of our other accounts and allow ourselves
to click on the other accounts and log
in to them basically. But the problem here
is that all of these components might need
to access our current user or change our
current user. So if we're passing in our
if we have a user's state and a
set user setter function, then we kind of
need to pass in this user and the
setUser function as props into a bunch of
different components. So we're passing in props. User
equals this username and then props dot setUser
as another function. And then it just becomes
really messy really quickly because you can imagine
if every single one of our components had
like seven props passed down into it, then
your code would just look like this for
every single time you wanted to write like
any component within your JSX basically. And generally
we try to keep our code shorter when
possible. So yeah, we don't want our code
to just get messy like that. And basically,
React has kind of a solution for this
which is called context. So context basically provide
a way for the higher level components in
our tree to communicate one state or potentially
multiple states that it keeps track of to
all of its subcomponents. So you can think
of it as basically the subcomponents getting some
context as to what the higher level states
are without the higher level components having to
pass down everything all the way through props.
Yeah. So of course, we would probably have
to see it in code to understand what
was actually going on. So here's an example
of code without use context. So as you
can see in this code, we're making a
user state and we're initializing it as my
name. And then we're passing the user state
all the way down and through a component
starting from component one all the way into
component two, and then into component three, and
then all the way into component four. And
we're passing it down through every single layer.
And then finally in component four, we use
the state. So if we wanted to save
ourselves the hassle of having to pass it
all the way down, what we could instead
do is outside of our component, we create
a context called user context. Well, can call
it whatever we want. This is a helpful
name to tell us that this is keeping
track of the user. Then inside component one,
we wrap the content of component one in
what we call a provider. And every single
context that we use using create context has
this provider element. And this allows us to
wrap everything. It's essentially just an element that
does nothing visually but it allows everything inside
of it to see whatever it's providing. And
here we're providing the value of user. Providers
have a special keyword called value and here
we give it a JSON object where the
user is our user state. So yeah, one
thing that you'll notice here immediately is that
component two, we don't need to pass a
user prop down into it. So in the
previous code, we saw that we needed to
pass a user prop into component two. Here,
we don't need to pass anything down into
component two. It'll already be able to know
what user is as long as we use
the context that it's wrapped around. And in
order to use the context, what we'll do
is we call the useContextTook using user context.
And then this will give us whatever's in
the value thing. So this value thing is
a JSON object with one parameter. We pull
out that parameter using dot user and then
now we can use it. Yeah, so an
analogy that you can think of is that
useState might be like a piece of information,
which which is our user and our set
user. We can change that piece of information
if we want to. But our useContext is
kind of like an empty book that you
can write in that a lot of people
have access to. In particular, everybody below you
in your subtree can access that piece of
information that you write into that book. Then
the provider is kind of just like the
library that you can check out the book
from. And so if you wrap everything around
like this provider, then everything that can access
your library can now check out this book
and read what's inside of it. Yeah. Cool.
I think yeah, I'll stop for like thirty
seconds maybe, and you can take a look
at this code. Make sure everything makes sense.
If you have any questions, feel free to
ask them right now or in the questions
doc. Oh, yeah. Go ahead. Yeah, they can
be in completely different files. So the only
thing that matters here is that component four
is within the tree of component one. So
everything that's a sub component of component one
or sub component of that or so on
and so forth should be able to access
anything that component one wraps in a provider.
This is kind of like a dummy example.
We'll see in the workshop that you can
even define the user context in a separate
file from your component as well. Okay, cool.
Moving on, we'll do a little bit of
a review of how the componentry works and
how to use context specific layer. Yeah, so
here's an example componentry with app as our
top level. Let's say we define a context
around a where we set our happiness to
six. Okay, so how many components will know
what our happiness is? Maybe give a number
of fingers on your hand, like one to
five. What do we think? For how many
components in this component tree? Cool. Yeah, I
see like mostly fours and fives. Yeah, so
if we include a, then the answer is
five. If we don't include a, then the
answer is four. But it's gonna just be
everything but like a and below. The other
side of the tree won't know what like
our context is or what's inside of our
context. But it'll be A, C, D, G,
and H. Yeah. Cool. And then maybe you
have the question, if we can have multiple
contexts, maybe something like this where we have
one use context that's wrapping everything underneath A
and then another one that's wrapping everything underneath
C. Yeah, so we can definitely do something
like this. This thing that really prevents us
from doing this, we just have to define
two separate contexts and two separate providers basically.
Okay. Any questions before moving on? We're going
to move on to a different topic entirely
basically. Okay. So we're going to talk about
React Router now. You've already seen React Router,
we kind of talked about it a little
bit in workshop two. But we're going to
dive a little bit deeper into how React
Router works basically. And what like maybe you
saw like a router or a router provider
or something like that and you were like
I don't know exactly what that is but
we'll kind of talk about what all of
those are right now a little bit. So
this is our code from workshop two and
we created this router kind of thing and
then we've rendered it into the element. Anytime
you want to use any package basically but
here we're using the React Router DOM package,
you need to import what you want to
use from it. Here we're just importing these
packages or importing these functions that you don't
really have to worry too much about. The
router setup is in line 17 through 24.
And the first two lines generally won't ever
change, so you don't have to really worry
about them. And then we create the router
based on what's inside of this component, tree
almost. And then finally, we render the route
into the document by using this getting element
by ID of the root and then rendering
the router provider into it. Yeah, so the
funny thing here is this router provider is
actually a context provider and it basically allows
everything inside of our router provider to see
anything about the URL that we want to.
So the URL is kind of what is
being provided in the context right now. So
everything inside of our router provider can see
the URL. So that's a fun link to
what we just talked about with use context.
So router provider is using some kind of
use context in the background to provide this
information to all the subcomponents. So let's zoom
in a little closer on the router declaration.
So this is the React route tree. And
all our pages exist here. And if we
take this route tree, we can transform it
into this tree as follows, where we represent
green elements using green and then error elements
using red. So here we have the app
and not found at the top. And then
below it, we have two components, feed and
profile, that exist at the paths just slash
and slash profile. So if we continue with
this example tree, router elements are always going
to be rendered starting from the root. So
even at localhost five thousand one seventy three
slash profile we try to render profile but
in order to do that we have to
render app first. So what does that mean
exactly? If you go into the app code,
we see like this outlet thing in app.
Jsx when we return And you might wonder
what the outlet is doing. You can essentially
think of the outlet as a placeholder component.
So when we render at profile, this outlet
will be replaced with the profile component. So
here, if we navigate to localhost five thousand
one and seventy three slash profile, we'll see
that the outlet that was previously here is
just going to basically just essentially be replaced
with the profile component. And then if we
instead navigate to localhost five thousand one seventy
three, then we'll be rendering at the slash
thing. So we'll be rendering feed. So this
outlet component is going be replaced by feed
instead. And so you'll just see two different
component trees at these two different routes essentially
because the outlet is acting as a placeholder.
And the nice thing about this is that
no matter where we navigate to, we always
see the nav bar at the top. So
that's the important part here, which is what
makes the outlet thing kind of nice is
that whether you're at profile or feed, always
see the same nav bar at the top
of your page. Cool. If you want to
pass props into outlets, it kind of works
as you might expect from the parent side.
So you pass in this my test prop
maybe and then you feed it some parameter
and then from your feed. Before, you weren't
in some router sort of tree, you would
just access this prop using props. Mytestprop. But
it'll look a little bit different in React
Router when you're passing through this route component
instead. So here, if you try to console
log this, it won't work. Instead what we
do is we use the use outlet context
hook. We haven't seen this yet, but it
might be useful in your project if you
ever want to pass in the same prop
into all of the subcomponents of your route
tree. Essentially, we just replace props with the
useOutletContext hook and we're able to access the
myTest prop parameter. Any questions here? I'll go
back to the slide and pause for like
thirty seconds. Yeah. Yeah. So whenever you want
to use React Hook, you generally want to
import it in the file that you're using
it in. Here, this is in Feed. Jsx,
so we'd probably have to import UseOutletContext at
the top of Feed. Jsx in order to
use the hook. Any other questions? Cool? Okay,
moving on. Yeah, so now we'll talk about
how the route tree kind of gets transformed
into routes. A path to the route is
essentially like the concatenation of all the relative
routes along the route. So just as an
example here, we have this like slightly more
complex tree. If we navigate to local host
five thousand one seventy three slash profile slash
alice, we'll be rendering profile a because we'll
travel down from the root to slash profile
and then to slash alice. So we'll be
happens when we try to we'll be rendering
whatever the tree is with just starting from
profile a essentially. And then we didn't talk
about error elements yet, but error elements essentially
catch when the paths don't match valid router
paths. So here as an example, localhost five
thousand one seventy threegame. We'll be building a
game in a later workshop, but so far
we don't have one yet. So right now
if we try to navigate here, it'll just
render the not found element. Because starting from
the root, it doesn't see anything. That's slash
game. Okay. So yeah, I have another question
for all of you guys. So what would
be rendered? Which one of the components would
be the one that is rendered at localhost
five thousand one 70 three slash profile slash
Charlie? Would we see feed, not found, profile,
or user not found? Maybe like, again, finger,
like one for feed, two for not found,
three for profile, and four for user not
found. What do we think? Yeah, I saw
basically all fours. Yeah, that's correct. We'll start
from the root. We'll go to profile. And
then in profile we'll try to go to
Charlie, but it won't exist, so we'll see
user not found. If we were to write
this tree out in code, would look something
like this, where we have this inner profile
like tree where there's a slash profile here
and it has an error element of user
not found. And then beneath that there's two
sub routes essentially. Yeah, this is the first
example that we've seen of a router tree
of depth more than one. But I'll kind
of skip past this. And if you want
to look more at it, you can come
back to it later. But yeah, this code
is just going to map out into this
tree, basically. Okay. Let's say I wanted a
lot of profiles and I didn't want to
hard code every single one as a React
component. If a user creates a profile on
my website, I'm not trying to go into
my source code and then add another file
with another component saying profile c or something.
So the dream scenario is that profileabby reads
Abby from the URL and then passes it
in as a parameter to the profile component.
And I only have one profile component that
can manage whatever's inside of it using the
props that's passed into it. So the nice
thing is that React Router has a functionality
for this too. Of course it would. Here
we have slightly different React Router tree where
the second route that we define has a
colon name tag at the end of it.
So this colon name part is a dynamic
part of the path. And so what that
means is this will be passed down as
a parameter for the profile element to be
able to access. So how do we get
the name in profile. Jsx? We just add
it at the top. Here, let's say this
was our code before in profile. Jsx where
we didn't feed a name down. Now if
use this useParams hook in order to retrieve
whatever is in the URL. So we just
write const name equals useParams. Name and this
dot name part will just look for any
colon name part of our URL and then
it'll replace that with whatever is passed in.
And then here maybe we just set the
document title to names profile page instead. So
what would happen here is basically if we
went to profileabby, then when we access use
params, it'll have the name parameter as Abby
because we've replaced our colon name area with
Abby and it acts as a dynamic part
of our route. Now when we navigate to
slash profile slash Abby, we'll see Abby's profile
page as the title of our document instead.
Yeah. Cool. Yeah, that's kind of the last
part of it, of my lecture. So are
there any questions about this? I'll leave it
up for a bit as well. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, so let's say you wanted to pass
in more than one parameter. You could literally
just do something like slash colon name and
then slash colon ID or something. And then
you can just access it using useParams. Name
and useParams. ID. You can just retrieve the
two parameters from there, essentially. Anything in your
URL with a colon in front of it,
you can retrieve just using useParams and then
retrieving the same thing that you put into
the URL basically. Here we put colon name,
so we retrieve it using dot name. Any
other questions? So the last comment I wanted
to make, I'm going to skip the wrap
up, is that there's a bunch of resources
out there for you to be able to
learn these things yourself. And React has a
bunch of other useful hooks for you to
use in your project. And you will probably
find reading documentation pretty helpful for you to
be able to incorporate interesting functionalities into your
front end. So here are just a few
links for you to maybe learn a little
bit more about these things if you want.
But yeah, if you ever are wondering anything,
you can always look towards documentation, ask people
on Stack Overflow, things like that. Yeah, there's
a bunch of resources out there. We'll be
moving on but before that, if you want
to go to weblab.afeedback and give me some
feedback on lecture. Yeah. But yeah, thank you
guys.